Dear Robbie,

I’m grateful and glad that Berkeley has brought me one of my most unexpected friendships. There’s so much I appreciate about both you and you being in my life—and I’m glad we have become friends throughout and beyond Berkeley.

When we first met, I think I had skepticism that our friendship would endure. I was overly talkative, and you had a silent endurance. In some ways, I feel that our friendship was like Ellie and Gus from Up. In one of the starting scenes, Ellie says, “You don’t talk a lot. I like you.” During our first year, our commonality we bonded over was really just going out.
Only now have I come to appreciate that there was a real strength behind the silence—or as Robbie would put it, “Real Gs move in silence.” There were and are so many things I take for granted from you.

The small details and compromises you make—not out of a position of weakness—but out of a position of strength. Things like holding the door, showing up for friends, picking them up, and being there to help. These small things reflect a more external devotion to people other than oneself.

More largely, you take on the silent burden without any complaint. Whether it is making the difficult choice to graduate early and move to Seattle, flying to Berkeley nearly every week, or commuting down to Amazon’s office—there are countless sacrifices you make.
The process of thinking of others first is something I’m sure your father is incredibly proud of you for picking up from him, and something I am striving to emulate from you.

During sophomore and junior year, I felt the most isolated in college. Still, your friendship—being there for me whenever I needed support—truly meant the world to me. Despite being a swirl and source of negativity, and having little consideration for you, I’m so indebted that you stood by me. During this time, we also started to bridge that gap. Namely, I’ll always look back at our drive to Vancouver as a real turning point. Part of this may have been just a function of spending more time together outside of just partying.

However, it was during this time that I improperly associated “trauma uncovering / dumping” with depth or quality of conversation and connection. One concept I have been thinking a lot about recently is the idea of “flat conversations.” I have realized that I feel pressure in conversations to create imbalance. I can take a higher position—giving out advice to others. I can take a lower position—putting myself in a spot of pity and asking others to pick me up.
I’d say it wasn’t until late junior year / last year that we were really able to bridge the conversation gap. A big part of the conversation quality improving is likely due to me being less self-centered and better at actually listening, as opposed to just talking. Importantly, I recognize that our friendship was initiated on a shaky base—partying. I’m glad that despite our near 180 of that life/allure, deep personal changes for both of us, and moving across the country, our friendship has endured.

During times of change and growth, I’m glad that we are able to celebrate the wins for each other and accept each other for who we are hoping to become. Even now, times like talking on the subway in Japan, and the discomfort it caused you—looking back, you were likely more mindful of others than I was being. This grace you extend to others—and most especially to me—is something I have increasing admiration for.

I’m also incredibly glad, proud, and happy to see your growth. You have since become more confident in voicing your perspective. While you are still as considerate as ever, I’ve noticed a noticeably stronger sense of self. With me, with others, you have continued your consideration of others without giving in. I’m proud of the self-changes you underwent to find your voice, and I’m glad to hear you voice your stronger views. I hope to continue to be there to hear your thoughts in the future.

In addition, I continue to admire the dedication you have to becoming a better version of yourself. Whether it is your interest in improving yourself through reading, pushing yourself to be more in the moment and less technology-focused, or reflecting on who you are as a person. The life you live is one filled with intention, and that, perhaps, is the most important thing we can carry forward in our current stage of life.

Thanks for giving me the chance to learn and to do over—over and over—by being in your presence. I’m grateful to have been able to experience your growth, and your support for me in my darkest times.

I hope to be more present and to create space for who you are. I hope you join me in my attempt at more “flat” conversations, where the goal of conversation is simply to have no goal.
Thanks for enduring my growing pains, picking up the slack in the friendship more often than not, the check-ins on how things are going, and so much more.

Your friend,
Ethan Huang


